[MUSIC]
>> Jon Kuperman: Page Jank,
we've talked about it a little bit,
just like this general
according to Jank free.
It's a stuttering, juddering or
plain halting that users see.
So it's pretty common and
it's one of those I think
like subtle things that makes a big
difference to the user experience.
Like any kind of like stutter,
I mean it just kinda throws you off.
It just doesn't look great, it doesn't
feel great, and they've done a lot
of market research studies that say that,
it's very, very important to people that
websites are apps feel fluid,
feel really smooth, feel instead.
So this is why I like measuring frames per
second, and looking at the timeline for
Page Jank notifiers is really important.
So this is kind of an older
view of the DevTools.
But paints are definitely unavoidable in
the sense that your screen needs to paint
any time anything needs to change.
But there's a lot of stuff that you
can do to make the process better.
And so
we kind of covered 60 frames per second.
Again there's just the math behind it.
Basically, a new frame 60 times in
a second which gives your browser
10 milliseconds to come up with a frame.
And so some kind of like interesting
things that you can do coming back
over here.
If I open the DevTools,
well it's got really big on me.
So there's a kind of hidden panel
that's not one of these panels.
And it's accessible only
by hitting the Esc button.
And it's called the like console drawer or
whatever.
I use it a lot because it allows you
to have a console on every other panel.
So if you wanted it instead of
hopping between elements and
console like we were doing earlier.
From elements you can just hit Esc and
open up this drawer, and
you have your full console access.
But it also offers these two tools
around Animations and Rendering.
So the first one that we're
gonna use is a FPS Meter.
You turn that on and all this and
you get this fancy little frames
per second thing going on.
And from there you can kind
of go around on your site and
you're just basically seeing
like if it's moving, so
it's cool, it's color codes it all for
you basically.
Basically like as we get up higher and
higher and higher,
it'll start turning orange and then red,
if you're not able to serve enough
frames per second to the browser.
I'd also tells you like how much
of GPU memory is being used.
This is like if you're
doing any kind of D3 or
even like just complicated CSS animations.
It's really great that you
can toss work to the GPU,
but this helps you kind of keep an eye on.
If you're close, because the GPU only
donates so much to your browser.
So you can you can max that out,
doing things like CSS transitions and
animations.
This is pretty cool.
The page that is here definitely
feels a little bit janky, but
it's not breaking the FPS, which is good.
>> Jon Kuperman: So
yeah, I guess, okay, so
the FPS Meter is really nice and
I leave that up, sometimes.
The other thing that's really,
really useful is back in the exact
same area is Paint Flashing.
And it's called show paint rectangles on
Chrome stable they just renamed it and
what this lets you do,
it works nicely in Tandem.
Is it basically will flash green
wherever the screen is repainting.
So you knew this unlike any site
to get a good idea, this is where
I think you asked a question about like,
how can you find what's causing,
like if I see a lot of paints or
a lot of rendering slowing it down.
It's not as easy as clicking a function
a line number, but what you can do is you
can turn on Paint Flashing, and
you can see where your problem areas are.
So it looks like I have a problem
area on my whole page, but
I also have an additional problem area
on this little ad that I've got up here.
So this kind of helps
you visualize things.
An area like that's interesting
to look at like on Twitter,
I worked for a while on the Home Timeline.
So I'd have Paint Flashing on and
nothing should we rerender, right?
The entire time line, if something needs
to change it should just rerender it.
So it's like those are the kind of
things that you would watch out for
with Paint Flashing.
Your whole page should not be repainting,
unless it's actually
changing all of its content.
So we can see that we kind of some
problems on here, if we wanted to see
a good example, there's this really
adorable site called koalastothemax.com,
I think I have a slide for it.
Well there it is, we'll get to it,
but we're gonna jump to this.
So you can turn Paint Flashing on,
open up the console,
open the drawer, turn Paint Flashing on.
And from here you can see what a good
example is where all that rerenders
are the actual areas that you're changing,
right?
So what a bad example would be is if we
saw this whole square paint green every
time we just animated something over here.
So this is what a good example would look
like, and I think if you scroll enough
on this it turns into a picture of
a Koala eventually, it's gonna get there.
Anyway, there it is.
So yes, so this is a good example, this
page that I have up right here is a bad
example, cuz we're seeing way
too much stuff going on here.
So this one again, the painting and
rendering is trickier to diagnose
than JavaScript stuff, right?
Like the JavaScript stuff, we can
just click on and get a line number.
It's pretty easy to at least find what
the problem is, if not find a solution.
The painting stuff is
a little bit trickier and
I often use this kind of find and
delete methodology.
[LAUGH] I call it, so basically,
I'm gonna pin this to the bottom and
I'm gonna close the console
door with Esc again.
And basically what I do, pretty frequently
is I just kind of hover over items.
And then I use the Delete key to remove
them and see if the problem still exists.
It is very scientific.
So for example, if I see that
the first problem that I wanna fix is
the whole screen is
repainting when you scroll.
And there is just no reason for that.
So it's like if I kind of went in here and
I started just a fleeting items,
I got in that row and then it's OK,
that's a bad example.
So I can Ctrl+Z to undo,
cuz the rows all the contact.
But anyway, so you can start sniping,
get rid of this class here,
and see us still problematic.
And then you can kind of
get rid of the stuff here,
again it's shrinking the content too low.
But anyway, it's kind of the best approach
that I found so far, is just removing it.
I mean sometimes it'll be obvious, right?
So in this case, I have a pretty good
idea like fixed position items like this,
are always a pain.
They're usually a source, so
what I imagine is if I go ahead and
inspect this thing and
it's like this ad-container.
And I go ahead and delete it,
we won't see that extra junk anymore.
Now we just have the one
covering the whole page, right?
As opposed to before, we've got two.
So I know that the fixed position is
a problem, but if I'm not sure what
the problem on the actual page is, I
usually just go through and delete things.
So this is an example that
I took from somebody site,
where they have this div
menu animation wrapper.
And it basically was just like a container
that they had that they wanted to
use as a CSS selector.
So it was an outer container for
everything, but
it was styled all wonky with
this position fixed width 100,
height 100, z-index 1,000,
all this stuff going on.
So I took this overproduction site.
And it's really useless, cuz all it
helps with is your CSS selectors.
But if you go ahead to lead it,
then all of a sudden there's no more
green on any of that page jank.
So that's why Paint Flashing is so
important,
cuz it's some seemingly
harmless thing on a container.
Can actually be causing users to visually
struggle to get through your site.
Another thing that I just kind of want
to talk about with screen paints is,
this is from, I can't remember his name.
>> Jon Kuperman: I'll have to look up,
I think I've got the source somewhere.
But this is really, really great blog post
that's called Preventing Layout Thrashing.
And it explains what it is that causes
things to need to be repainted too often.
So the basic idea is whenever you
write to the document in any way,
the browser has to invalidate
that containing layout.
Cuz it can't possibly know what's being
changed as you write to the document.
So the problem comes not
writing to the document,
cuz that is important you
always need to do that.
The problem comes with the way we
end up having to structure our code.
So we do things like this all the time,
where we read something
then we invalidate it.
And we read again, then we invalidate
again, cuz we're reading and
writing constantly, and
applications are really big.
So what it would be ideal to do
is to do all of our reads, and
then all of our writes.
Which is just not realistic in a real
company with multiple employees
writing code.
You can't be like hey, you now allowed to
look at the height there, you have to look
at the height in another file and weigh
up the chain, it's just not possible.
And so what you can do to avoid this
layout thrashing, which is the constant
invalidation of the DOM, is you can use
this API Window requestAnimationFrame().
And requestAnimationFrame() is basically
a method that gives you a call back.
And it says, hey,
next time you're about to repaint anyway,
here's some code I want you to run.
So you could say, if you need to write a
user's name or maybe it's a shopping cart,
and they're clicking on items they
wanna add to their shopping cart.
So every time they click on an item
you need to update that total, right?
We don't necessarily need
to do it instantaneous,
I mean you get 60 frames in a second.
So instead of writing to that
shopping cart, you could say,
Window.requestAnimationFrame() you can
pass in a callback function that writes
the shopping cart.
So it's doing things like
that will really help you.
But don't worry, you don't need
to do all that stuff yourself.
I just wanted to explain how the inner
workings of this really cool library.
Wilson page, he's the one that wrote the
article, this library's called Fastdom.
This is a library that you
might not be familiar with, but
likely libraries you use
have this as a dependency.
So it's at github/wilsonpage/fastdom.
And so all this does is it has a nice
little API that just wraps everything in
these nice requestAnimationFrames.
So you write your code kind of normally,
and
then it takes care of making sure that it
batches up reads and it batches up writes.
So I'd recommend using this,
it's very easy to use, but
likely if you're using something like amp,
amp uses fastdom.
If you're using,
you know what I'm saying, it's usually
a dependency of your dependencies.
But it is a cool concept and
I want to explain how it worked.